understand-tidb: add a dev-guide for parser (#155)
pingcap/tidb-dev-guide: src/understand-tidb/parser.md

# Parser

> Parser is responsible for interpreting a SQL string into an abstract syntax tree(AST), which is more structural and easier to process. AST can be used for preprocess, syntactic analysis, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parser is responsible for interpreting a SQL string into an abstract syntax tree (AST), which is more structural and easier to process. AST can be used for preprocess, syntactic analysis, and so on.
```

The code lives in the [pingcap/parser](https://github.com/pingcap/parser) repo.

## Understand Parser

Parser is generated by a parser generator named [yacc](https://github.com/cznic/parser). It takes the grammar file `parser.y` as the input and output the source code file `parser.go`, which is the real parser imported by TiDB. Thus, the core file is `parser.y` because when the SQL syntax changes, most of the changes take place in `parser.y`.

In case you are unfamiliar with yacc, some concepts are listed here:

> - **Terminal Symbol** is also known as "token". When a SQL string reaches parser, the first step is to tokenize them into an array of tokens. For example, `"SELECT * FROM t"` is tokenized to `[selectKeyword, '*', fromKeyword, identifier(t)]` by [lexer.Lex()](https://github.com/pingcap/parser/blob/ae8dec26d777272d56288fa4c9d4264ce0d31a03/lexer.go#L178).
> - **Non-terminal Symbol** is a syntatic variable, which can represent a group of terminal/non-terminal symbols.
> - **Grammar Rule** sepcifies which symbols can replace which other non-terminal symbol.
> - **Semantic Action** defines how an AST node is constructed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Terminal Symbol** is also known as "token". When a SQL string reaches parser, the first step is to tokenize them into an array of tokens. For example, `"SELECT * FROM t"` is tokenized to `[selectKeyword, '*', fromKeyword, identifier(t)]` by [lexer.Lex()](https://github.com/pingcap/parser/blob/ae8dec26d777272d56288fa4c9d4264ce0d31a03/lexer.go#L178).
* **Non-terminal Symbol** is a syntactic variable, which can represent a group of terminal/non-terminal symbols.
* **Grammar Rule** specifies which symbols can replace which other non-terminal symbol.
* **Semantic Action** defines how an AST node is constructed.
```

An example of a grammar rule is as follows:

```
AlterDatabaseStmt:
	"ALTER" DatabaseSym DBName DatabaseOptionList
	{
		$$ = &ast.AlterDatabaseStmt{
			Name:                 $3,
			AlterDefaultDatabase: false,
			Options:              $4.([]*ast.DatabaseOption),
		}
	}
```

> - `AlterDatabaseStmt` is a non-terminal symbol because there is no such token.
> - `"ALTER"` is a terminal symbol.
> - `DatabaseSym`, `DBName`, `DatabaseOptionList` are non-terminal symbols that are defined in other rules.
> - The psudo-code in brackets is the semantic action. It means an AST node `ast.AlterDatabaseStmt` will be constructed when the rule is reduced by the parser. Note that a dollar character `$` followed by a number represents the binded Golang value previously(in other rules), where the number is the index of symbol in rule. `$$` represents current binding value. After goyacc substitution, this code snippet will be valid Golang code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `AlterDatabaseStmt` is a non-terminal symbol because there is no such token.
* `"ALTER"` is a terminal symbol.
* `DatabaseSym`, `DBName`, `DatabaseOptionList` are non-terminal symbols that are defined in other rules.
* The pseudo-code in brackets is the semantic action. It means an AST node `ast.AlterDatabaseStmt` will be constructed when the rule is reduced by the parser. Note that a dollar character `$` followed by a number represents the binding Golang value previously (in other rules), where the number is the index of symbol in rule (1-based). `$$` represents current binding value. After goyacc substitution, this code snippet will be valid Golang code.
```

> Getting back to `parser.y`, the structure of this file is divided into 3 parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting back to `parser.y`, the structure of this file is divided into three parts:
```

IIRC we write number under 10 in English. I heard this from docs-committers.
